[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
a pretty simple example.
How might we have a slightly
more complex one?
This one, I've got csp in
front of everything because
I'm now using a library.
There are libraries for CSP, and
one of them uses the namespace csp for it.
And you notice that we call it .go because
we're modeled off of that go routine
mentality, the stuff that comes from
the GO language in from Closure script.
So this is how I actually passed those two
generators to something that can do it.
The previous code snippet just
pretended that somebody did it but
this is a little bit further step along.
It shows us how it would work.
We would pass those generators
in to a method called Go and
you notice now I have
a while true loop going.
Which is gonna let those
things run forever.
That's how you end up modeling
these independent processes that
run your application as you end up
basically having every one of them with
a while true loop in it.
They're all running independently.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
here I've got on line 1 through 5,
I'm declaring a go routine that's
going to, every time somebody lets it
it's gonna generate a new random
number and push it down the channel.
It would like to do that as fast as
possible but if you'll notice the notion
of this blocking channel is, it's going
to be, there is a back pressure here.
It's not going to be allowed to push
anything down the channel at any faster
speed than somebody on the other end
is consuming it, can you see that.
So on the other end of the channel,
I have another go routine in an entirely
different part of my application and
he's waiting every 500 milliseconds.
And he's pulling something off
the channel once every 500 milliseconds.
Does that sound familiar?
Does that sound like a sampled stream?
This is a way of modeling the sampled
stream through CSP semantics.
So the guy up on line 3 is note
able to push the random values any
faster than somebody is consuming.
And the guy down on line 9 is consuming
them only once every 500 milliseconds.
Well, the guy in line 9 has no idea
how those values are being produced or
where they're coming from.
The guy on line 3 has no
idea who's taking them.
They're literally completely
independent sequential processes but
they're able to coordinate through
blocking channel semantics.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: This should walking
through this just a little bit more and
you might be doing it now but
there's the two takes, right?
Yield on line-
>> Kyle Simpson: The first one
on line 9, yep.
>> Speaker 2: Line 9, that is taking
a value from the first function?
>> Kyle Simpson: But
look where it's taking it from,
because take always requires a channel.
And what we're passing to it is a channel
that is created by the timeout function.
So the time out utility which is
provided by this library creates
a channel that won't push a message down
until after 500 milliseconds has passed.
So we're basically saying I want
to take from that channel and
I'm gonna wait until that
channel gives me something.
That's a way for
us to do the blocking semantics or
I mean the blocking the local.
>> Speaker 2: Maybe I
missed what is the channel?
>> Kyle Simpson: So
the first argument to the put and
the take methods that we're
showing here is always a channel.
So if I take from a channel
produced by the timeout method,
it doesn't matter to me
what channel it is, but
I know that that channel is not gonna send
me a message until after 500 milliseconds.
>> Speaker 2: There's a channel
declaration ch above.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, it's like in
the previous slide, we made one here.
These libraries have different
ways of making your channel so
that's how you make a channel is
like up on line 1 for example.
Here that channel,
we just know it exists in the ether.
It came from somewhere.
>> Speaker 3: Channel is kind
of a global though.
You say they don't know about each other,
but somehow you have to have this global
state that's-
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
in my opinion one of the downsides
of this particular library.
It assumes global variables.
We'll see that other libraries
like mine don't do that.
okay?
But yes, that's a detail that you have
to figure out some way to transport
the channel so that the two different.
The only thing they have to know about
is they have to share a reference to
the channel.
There's lots of different ways that
you can do that global variables as
just one of them, okay?
>> Kyle Simpson: Last thing I
wanna show you, so the puts and
takes are pretty straight forward but
there are actually dozens of different
primitives that are defined here.
Put and
take are by far the most commonly used.
But there's another one that's pretty
commonly used, and it's called alts.
Alts lets you define a list
of multiple channels and say
I want to do some action on the first of
these channels that lets me do something.
So you might have two channels
that you'd like to take from and
one channel that you'd like to put on and
you don't care which of those three
actions happens but you're just waiting
for somebody to unblocked you so
that you can do something.
So you pass in those instructions here.
Because I'm just passing in three channels
the default is that I wanna take from
those channels.
But I could also pass in one channel where
I'm saying I wanna put to this channel.
And it's not gonna get to channel 2 and
channel 3 at all if channel 1
always has a message ready.
So it's basically saying whichever one in
order that I specify them whichever one
has something for somebody it's kind
of like a promised out rate sort of.
So everyone has something for me,
then it's gonna unblock me and let me go.
So this is a way to have lots of
different input channels coming in and
being able to manage all of
those different channels.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's just a silly
example I wanted to throw in it's one of
the canonical examples for CSP, you notice
on line 1 I create a single go routine.
And there on line 2 is where
I'm making a channel so
you see csp.chan that's on make
a channel with this particular library.
So I'm making a ping pong table for
my channel and notice lines 4 and
5 are creating more go routines.
I'm calling the go method and I'm passing
it a reference to another generator,
the another go routine,
the generator that's on line 12.
So I'm creating two instances
of my play or go routine, so
now I have three go routines
happening at the same time.
I have this main one, which is kind
of like the referee for the game and
then I have two players.
And I have a table which
represents my channel, and
the way we're going to
trade information back and
forth is that we're gonna trade a ball
back and forth across the channels.
So the first player is called ping
in the second player is called pong.
And you notice that the player on line
13 it set up with a while true loop.
He says while I can keep going
which means basically forever.
I am going to take from the tables so
I'm waiting for the ball to get hit to me.
And as long as I didn't get
the message that my channel is closed,
which tells me that the game is over, then
I'm going to update my hit count by one,
print out the fact that I'm
the one hitting the ball.
And then I'm gonna wait 100 milliseconds
to add a little bit of latency to
the system, and then I'm gonna hit
the ball back to the other player.
And that's line 22, and
I put the ball back.
So these two different player
instances that trade the ball back and
forth every 100 milliseconds
until the referee says game over.
And that's what happens up on
line 9 after 1000 milliseconds
the referee closes the table
channel says the game's over.
>> Kyle Simpson: First time I saw this
example that's when I had that, what.
I'd never seen anything like this before
and ever since then I've been fascinated
and actively researching how can we take
that and make the programming that we
do more reasonable, more understandable
by making things more modular and
more independent, so we don't have so
much complexity in our systems.